Welcome. This is our twenty, maybe twenty-third Nyungne practice we've had here in glorious pure
land of Padma Samye Ling,
led for many years by our very precious teachers, Venerable Kenshin Pauld and Shera Rinpoche,
and Venerable Kenpoche Von Dondyo Rinpoche, who established this beautiful oasis for everyone to
come,
explore their nature, and the Buddha's teachings, and Guru Padma Sambha's teachings,
and just make this beautiful living lineage of wisdom and compassion available for all the beings
of this time
and long into the future is our aspiration. So, again, just so precious and special to be here.
I know maybe several people have been here every one of those years and beyond and others different
degrees
or had done the Nyungne practice before, but welcome wherever we are with our practice.
We're all here in the spirit of love, peace, compassion, joy, appreciation, courage, and commitment
.
And like our Venerable teachers always say, really, everything is circumstantial.
It's our motivation and our intention that makes all the difference.
So, just as we begin, again, just reminding each one of us, reflecting on how beautiful and
precious this time is,
that of all the situations just in this world that are going on, that we are free to be here
together,
again, with this beautiful profound teaching, which like Raga Asya, the great Karma Chakme said,
"Just practicing the Nyungne practice once closes the door on all lower rebirths."
And Buddha Shakyamuni, Guru Padma Sambha, so many teachings on how powerful and profound
contemplating,
you know, Chenrezig and reciting Om Mani Padme Home is just a very special, rare time.
So again, just like we always do, beginning, really connecting with our beautiful motivation
and reflecting on our beautiful situation, that we're not only just within this world,
but all within all of the myriad, some trouble, some situations and traps of some sorrow.
We're free of so much. And we have these beautiful facilities.
We have this beautiful Dharma that is here and alive and living with our great teachers
and the Sangha coming together to explore and embody them.
It's really so special, so precious. And we shouldn't forget that.
Like when Kenpo Sambha Rinpoche says again and again,
this connecting with our joy, our appreciation, looking at our situation as it is,
that's the whole Buddhist path. That's why always connecting with our intention,
our motivation is so critical, so vital, so important.
So when just reflecting on, again, how precious the situation is for us,
all of our freedoms and endowments that allow us to be here.
And then, again, within the great display, you know, that's just ceaselessly ceasing.
We all have reflected to some degree upon impermanence.
You know, this beautiful opportunity, we're all here together,
but the sun in two more sunrises will depart to other lands and worlds,
but all in the same spirit. But again, this weekend is just here for a couple days,
a very strong practice, a beautiful practice.
And again, just reflecting again for all of us on these four thoughts, impermanence.
And then, the laws of cause and effect, of karma.
Again, what has brought us here is, like Rinpoche says so much, it's not co-accidental.
We all have a beautiful connection with the true nature
that's very clear and resounding and putting us all together in this life.
And in this moment, in this beautiful place, perfect place, perfect time,
perfect teachings and practice, perfect assembly,
perfect, beautiful, vast view, meditation and conduct we'll be engaging with.
And so, you know, inevitably, the benefits of this practice are just going to be huge.
Maybe we'll just see the tip of the mountain, the tip of the iceberg,
but we can go move with confidence, you know, again with our pure motivation
and our actions of body, speech and mind we'll be doing, you know.
And just reflecting again on karma, there's suffering in the world, you know.
There's all the six realms of samsara, so as much as we're connecting with the beautiful view,
also keeping our eyes open to all the situations of samsara, all the sufferings, you know,
with wide-eyed, open, tender hearts, and also keeping the great view
of the openness and the purity of all phenomena.
Like they say in the beginning of the 37 practices of the bodhisattvas.
Togme Rinpoche is saying, you know, although you see all phenomena exactly as they are,
which means empty and vast, open, free, pure from the beginning,
still you, Chenrezic, look on all beings with the eyes and compassion.
So we're fusing again, we're doing this great practice of wisdom and compassion together.
We're generating, purifying our own, increasing our own wisdom,
doing all these meritorious actions, generating on that,
bringing all these beautiful conditions together for our practice.
And again, connecting with our bodhicitta just as vastly as we can.
This is fundamentally vast bodhicitta practice.
So again, just as much as we kind of reflect on the four thoughts in the beginning,
during, after, again connecting with the motivation of our bodhicitta,
and the ultimate level of bodhicitta is our beautiful innate nature
and the nature of every single living being, the Buddha nature,
which is nothing but limitless wisdom, love, compassion.
It's just the degree to which we recognize that.
That's the only difference between ordinary sentient being
and fully enlightened Buddha is the degree to which we recognize that beautiful nature or not.
But we all experience love, we all experience compassion,
we all have wisdom and intelligence to some degree.
So again, we're starting right where we are and we're opening,
opening beyond into the great vast beautiful nature,
connecting with our bodhicitta.
That's the absolute bodhicitta on the relative level.
We're really thinking of all the beings of samsara.
We're remembering the four boundless now and throughout our practice,
just really opening our mind and heart inseparably without any discrimination
as far and wide as we can to every single living being
with loving hearts and loving minds to the best of our ability,
wishing everyone have happiness and the causes of happiness
and be free of suffering and the causes of suffering.
That's compassion and rejoice that all beings have the ultimate fulfillment,
knowing the true nature which is not even the word suffering is there.
It's a great bliss, great happiness, knowing the true nature
as well as all fulfillments that we can go to in the more ordinary level.
That's our boundless joy.
And again, thinking not ignoring those close to us,
whether it's loving relationship, neutral relationship,
troubling, challenging relationship,
keeping every single being we know directly that's in our lives and through them,
letting that just be the door to open and open and break down
like the cheek in the mountain of our regimented, fixed conceptions
to open our heart, again, with wisdom and compassion and love.
And so we'll do that with this beautiful practice of the new nyang,
which again